---
layout: article
title: Jazzy
categories: robots
excerpt:
tags: [robots]
color: "#152a55"
image:
  feature: jazzy.jpg
  teaser: jazzy.jpg
  thumb:
comments: true
---

#!TL;DR

## Jazzy, Jekyll, and Swift 2.1

I wanted to take a a moment and document the steps I took to start documenting my Swift projects.

###Step One: Install
I found [Jazzy](https://github.com/Realm/jazzy).  It's a command line utility for documenting Xcode projects.  Nifty thing is, it is one of the few which works with Swift 2+. Anyway, it is pretty painless to get up and going.

The one catch I found was Swift is changing versions often, so you may have to wait a bit for the develoers to catch up.  However, when the updates are released it is pretty easy to get things working again, simply run, `sudo gem update` in the terminal.

###Step Two: Running
To run Jazzy you simply open a terminal window on your Mac, navigate to the top folder of your Xcode project, and run `jazzy`.  You should get something like the following,

{% highlight xml %}

Running xcodebuild
Parsing ViewController.swift (1/3)
Parsing bleTableViewController.swift (2/3)
Parsing AppDelegate.swift (3/3)
building site
jam out ♪♫ to your fresh new docs in `docs`

{% endhighlight %}

If jazzy parsed everything correctly you will have a `docs` folder in your project folder.  This docs folder is a pseudo-website build.  

###Step Three: Push to Pages
To get your documentation on-line copy the `docs` folder to your an appropriate directory in your Jekyll  site TOC.  Commit and push.  Now your project's documentation will be on-line.  To get a link to the index of your documentation add the following,

`[Test](director_you_chose_to_put_docs_folder/docs/index.html)`

Here's an example: [Test](/docs/index.html)
